The workshop that we developed, I mean,
it was pretty good. It was... It was
basically around the definitions
of the alphabet soup, the acronym,
that’s how we would start. The one that
police seemed the most unfamiliar with was
the “T.” They were okay with the LGB because
they kind of understood sexual orientation,
and of course by this time Ellen [DeGeneres]
had come out of the closet. [laughs] There were
visible representations on TV. However, they were
unfamiliar with trans and gender identity issues,
and what the relationship was between sexual
orientation and gender identity. So, as a result,
a lot of the discussion of the
workshops focusedon trans issues.
The cops would have to introduce
the strip search policy part. [laughs] There were
some really interesting reactions. Invariably,
some male cop would say, “What if there’s
this six-foot biker that says they’re trans,
and says they’re a woman, and then they want to
be searched by a female officer, and, you know,
she’s just this little female officer, and da,
da, da, da, da.” And this came up, I kid you not,
probably no less than three quarters of the time
I did this, that I was a facilitator for thistraining.
You know, that was some of the more
benign stuff that you would hear, right? Like,
the worst is what you would hear from LGBT cops
when the workshop was over, and they would come
and talk to you. You know, listening to people’s
pain and trauma, like, on their job. It’s just
like... I’m not a big fan of police service in
the way that it’s run, and the lack of community
integration and responsible accountability. But
I felt for some of these folks, for sure. Because
what they thought they were getting into, and
what they got into, were very different systems.